---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: Fragment from the coffin of an unknown woman
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_W_82
image: images/catalogue/preview_E_W_82_4_201411_jas244_dc2_crop.jpg
order: 39
images: 
  -
    image: preview_E_W_82_1_201411_jas244_dc2.jpg
    caption: Fragment from the coffin of an unknown woman, front view 
  -
    image: preview_E_W_82_3_201411_jas244_mas.jpg
    caption: Fragment from the coffin of an unknown woman, back view 
  -
    image: preview_E_W_82_2_201507_kly25_dc1.jpg
    caption: Fragment from the coffin of an unknown woman, detail of patching with two pieces of wood dowelled through from the yellow side of the fragment
---

**Object name:** 
Fragment from the coffin of an unknown woman

**Accession no.:** 
E.W.82

**Other numbers and markings:**
“E.W.82” written in ink

**Dimensions:** 
H 7.7 cm

W 72.7 cm

D 2.8 cm

**Brief description:** 

Fragment of a coffin, once belonging to a woman (according to the
grammatical endings in the
religious texts on the coffin inside). The inside is decorated with
coffin texts (spell 203, 204, 574, 210). The fragment belongs to the
lower end of a long coffin side.

Outside: The outside is painted yellow. There are double lines painted
green with parts of biographical phrases: Hzt nt nw t.s mi qd.s
(honoured of the whole town) and imaxyt xr rnnw tt nt pr. s (revered one
of Renenutet of her house). Both phrases are also known from other
Middle Kingdom coffins found at Asyut.

Inside: The inside is decorated with long religious texts. The same
sequence of coffin texts as on this fragment is to be found on the
coffin of Mesehti (S1C) from Asyut. Although the spells are only badly
preserved, it is clear that they closely follow the versions on the
better preserved coffin of Mesehti. Especially CT 203 has on the coffin
of Mesehti an extension, which also appears on the Cambridge coffin. The
coffin fragment is also decorated on the outside with double lines, only
known from Asyut and Rifeh. The coffin fragment was ‘found’ in the
museum store together with E.W.66.a, b which most likely comes from
Asyut.

**Date:**
About 2055–1985 BC

Eleventh Dynasty

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_W_82_dating)

**Find spot:**
Unknown provenance, but probably from Asyut, Egypt

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_W_82_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Unknown (the piece reached the museum before 1957) 

**Construction, decoration and materials:**


**Other information**

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_W_82_bibliography)
