---
layout: news
title: Research visit to Liverpool
category: news
date: 2023-01-08
updated: 2023-01-08
author: Helen Strudwick
tags: [Garstang Museum, World Museum, Middle Kingdom coffins, construction, decoration]
permalink: /news/liverpoolresearchvisit
thumbnail: /images/news/JDGarstangcoffin.jpg
images:
  -
    image: news/JDGarstangcoffin.jpg
    caption: Julie Dawson examines the panel from the head or foot end of a Middle Kingdom coffin at the Garstang Museum.
  -
    image: news/Garstang_E_577a_izf.jpg
    caption: Detail of the word iz (tomb), showing the black outline and (probable) Egyptian blue fills of the hieroglyphs, with an extra f-sign written in black ink. This coffin fragment is in the Garstang Museum.
  -
    image: news/Garstang_endpanel_E592.jpg
    caption: Merged images of the lower edge of an end panel from a coffin at the Garstang Museum, showing how it was fixed to a lower panel via an edge joint held in place by dowels and also the large mitre joints at the ends.
  -
    image: news/JDWorldMuseumcoffin.jpg
    caption: A complete coffin belonging to a woman named Hetepi at the World Museum, being studied by Julie Dawson.
  -
    image: news/WorldMuseum_coffin_footend.jpg
    caption: Sketchy hieroglyphs on the footend of the coffin of Hetepi in the World Museum
---
Last week, Julie Dawson and Helen Strudwick travelled to Liverpool to look at Middle Kingdom coffins and coffin fragments housed in the 
[Garstang Museum](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/garstang-museum/) and [World Museum](https://www.liverpoolmuseums.org.uk/world-museum). We were looking at the 
way these coffins had been constructed and decorated.

In both museums we examined pieces that have features such as cut-through old joints, which indicate that they were very likely to have been made from re-used wood. 
On anthropoid coffins we can sometimes see from the shape of planks and positions of joints that the reused wood must have come from other coffins. Unfortunately, 
on these rectangular box coffins, that is usually much less clear - but, it is nonetheless, intriguing to have such features present.

One coffin fragment at the Garstang impressed us by its large scale. Looking at [the edge](news/Garstang_endpanel_E592.jpg), we could see how thick the wood is,
the remains of the dowels that were used to fix it to a lower panel, to form the complete head or foot end panel of a box coffin, and the large mitre joints at either
edge that would have been used to fix it to the long panels on either side. 

Some great details in the decoration also showed up, like the [addition of an f-sign to the word tomb (iz)](news/Garstang_E_577a_isz.jpg) on some planks of 
wood belonging to a coffin in the Garstang Museum. So the inscription, instead of just saying "tomb", now says "**his** tomb", which suggests that this particular 
coffin was made and inscribed for no particular person but waited "on the shelf" in the coffin makers' workshop, ready to have the gender and name added when it 
was purchased. This hypothesis is strengthened by the fact that the name and title(s) of the owner, a person called Ipi, are written in a different style to the rest 
of the inscription.

At the World Museum, as well as coffin fragments, we had a chance to [study a complete coffin belonging to a woman named Hetepi](news/JDWorldMuseumcoffin.jpg). 
It's unusual for such an old coffin to survive so well, so it was a rare treat to be able to get so close up and spend time looking at it. Among the intringuing 
things about this particular coffin was the sketchy way [the hieroglyphs on the foot end of the coffin](news/WorldMuseum_cofin_footend.jpg) had been written. 
It is possible that the painting-in of 
the hieroglyphs had not happened in this area, or that the paint had been abraded here for some reason revealing the underdrawing. In any case, it was great to see
the different thickness of the line in different areas.

Our heartfelt thanks to Gina Criscenzo Laycock and her dedicated band of helpers at the Garstang and to Ashley Cooke at the World Museum for their
generosity in making the collections available to us and for looking after us so well.
