---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Wooden beard from a New Kingdom coffin '
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_105_1932
order: 19
images: 
  -
    image: /images/coffin-catalogue/E_105_1932_001_201506_jas244_mas.jpg
    caption: Wooden beard from a New Kingdom coffin
---

**Object name:** 
Wooden beard from a New Kingdom coffin 

**Accession no.:** 
E.105.1932

**Other numbers and markings:**
<other numbers etc.>

**Dimensions:** 
H 16.5 cm

**Brief description:** 

Wooden beard from a New Kingdom coffin. Carved channels hold blue glass inlays and a pinkish crystalline material embedded in a blue paste. The divisions are highlighted with gold leaf. A small amount of linen soaked in a reddish adhesive (probably animal glue) is visible over the wood on the proper left bottom corner of the beard on one of the raised areas. There is a patchy thin layer of white paste across the wood, primarily on the raised areas and the top where the beard would meet the chin. The raised areas are gilded on the front and sides. The centre of the back appears not to have been gilded. At the top of the back, a red pigment is visible on top of the white paste. This may be the colour of the missing face.

**Date:**
New Kingdom
c. 1550-1070 BC


[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_dating)

**Find spot:**
Said to be from Karnak

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Bequeathed by Edward Towry Whyte

[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_105_1932_imagesheet)

