---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Head end of a yellow coffin box'
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_1_2004
order: 1
images: 
  -
    image: /images/coffin-catalogue/large_E_1_2004_1_200604_adn21_mas.jpeg
    caption: Head end of a yellow coffin box front inner view 
  -
    image: /images/coffin-catalogue/large_E_1_2004_2_200604_adn21_dc1.jpg
    caption: Head end of a yellow coffin box side inner view 
  -
---

**Object name:** 
'Head end of a yellow coffin box'

**Accession no.:** 
E.1.2004

**Other numbers and markings:*
<other numbers etc.>

**Dimensions:** 
H 27 cm
W 29 cm
D 32 cm

**Brief description:** 

This fragment of a painted anthropoid coffin belonged to the head end of a 21st Dynasty. The inside is decorated with an image of a ba-bird and the outside is decorated with a text, which is covered by a thick pitch-like substance.
The ba bird on the inside is shown with a frontal face. His wings are spread and painted in red and black. The face of the ba bird is yellow. On either side is shown a sitting mummy form figure with a feather in the hands.
Next to the wings are shown offerings. The ba bird in this position on the inside of a box coffin is common on other coffins of the period.

This fragment is roughly fashioned from five pieces of cedar and sycomore fig, joined with sycomore fig dowels. A thick layer of coarse brown paste mixed with chopped vegetable fibres was used to build up the sides and make good termite damage and other deficiencies in the wood. A thin white calcite and calcium sulphate paste was applied over this.
 
There is a red underdrawing on the interior, a yellow background and red, blue (Egyptian blue) and green (severely darkened) paint. Decorative elements are outlined in black and red. A yellow pistacia varnish has been selectively applied to the surface. The outside is covered with an original (but not fully identified) black coating, making it difficult to see the decoration. Nevertheless, red outlining is visible and VIL images show that there is an intricate design worked in Egyptian blue, including a block border, vertical bands of hieroglyphs and at least one figure. 

As on Nespawershefyt’s inner coffin, the inside has a depiction of a ba spirit flying up from the body.


**Date:**
About 955–735 BC

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_dating)

**Find spot:**
<Basic find spot information>

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_findspot)

**Acquisition:**

given by Mrs Anne Peers with her brother and sister


Property of Mrs Peers' parents and Mrs Peers and her siblings know that it has been in their possession from at least the 1950's 

[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_1_2004_imagesheet)


