---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Gypsum plaster mask from a Roman coffin'
permalink: /test_coffin-catalogue/E_3_1906
order: 2
images: 
  -
    image: /images/coffin-catalogue/E_3_1906_2_201411_jas244_mas.jpg
    caption: Gypsum plaster mask from a Roman coffin
---

**Object name:** 
Gypsum plaster mask from a Roman coffin

**Accession no.:** 
E.3.1906

**Other numbers and markings:*
<other numbers etc.>

**Dimensions:** 
H 34 cm
W 20.2 cm
D 22.2 cm

**Brief description:** 

Gypsum plaster mask from a Roman coffin. The mask represents a man with curly, close-fitting hair, moustache and short beard. The plaster face, neck and ears of the mask were cast in moulds, then joined. The hair and beard have been modelled separately and applied, giving an individual appearance to the head. The eyes are made from glass sheets. The mask was painted to give a naturalistic appearance and was set down onto a surround made of layers of plaster and linen placed over the head and shoulders of the mummy. Most of the fragile structure has been lost, but where it survives below the back of the head, faint traces of a painted design are visible. Other masks from the same mould were apparently made in a workshop near Tuna el-Gebel.

**Date:**
c. AD 150

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_dating)

**Find spot:**
Unknown

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Uncertain

[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_3_1906_imagesheet)

