---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Ptolemaic sarcophagus lid '
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_48_1901
image: images/catalogue/E_48_1901_detail_crop.jpg
order: 6
images: 
  -
    image: E_48_1901_1.jpg
    caption: Ptolemaic sarcophagus lid from the front
  -
    image: E_48_1901_detail.jpg
    caption: Detail of the face
---

**Object name:** 
Ptolemaic sarcophagus lid 

**Accession no.:** 
E.48.1901

**Other numbers and markings:**
tbd

**Dimensions:** 
H 156 cm
W 61 cm
D 27 cm

**Brief description:** 

This lid, uncovered during excavations at Abydos, is part of the
sarcophagus of a man whose name is lost, but who held many priestly
titles. He was associated with royalty as ‘overseer of the cool place of
the king’ and priest of the two statues of king Nectanebo II (360–342
BC). This king’s statues continued to be venerated into the early
Ptolemaic Period, so it is hard to pinpoint exactly when the owner was
alive. The shape of the lid is typical of coffins around this time, with
a large, flat head and a broad chest. Coffins had few inscriptions in
this period. 

The lid is made of highly polished limestone. The eyes are outlined in
carbon-based black; the amulet and text column dividers are painted in
red earth and the text in a copper-based green pigment. The paint was
applied directly to the stone surface.

**Date:**
Early Ptolemaic Period

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_dating)

**Find spot:**
Abydos

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Gift of the Egypt Exploration Fund


[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_48_1901_imagesheet)

