---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Red shroud mummy'
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_63_1903
order: 8
images: 
  -
    image: /images/catalogue/E_63_1903_1.jpg
    caption: Red shroud mummy
  -
    image: /images/catalogue/E_63_1903_2.jpg
    caption: Detail of the portrait panel
---

**Object name:** 
Red shroud mummy 

**Accession no.:** 
E.63.1903

**Other numbers and markings:**
tbd

**Dimensions:** 
H <xxxx> cm
W <xxxx> cm
D <xxxx> cm

**Brief description:** 

Red-shroud portrait mummy of a man. The mummy is supported on two narrow
wooden planks, which are tied
together with bandages. This structure and the mummy were
wrapped together in a shroud made of a single piece of plain-weave
linen, folded neatly over the feet but gathered more roughly at the top
of the head and stuck in place. The shroud is painted in bright scarlet
made from a mixture of red lead, chalk/calcite and carbon-based black,
and applied in a beeswax medium. The decorative elements are outlined in
grey paint (lead white, yellow ochre and carbon-based black in a wax and
oil medium) and completed with purple paint (made from carbon-based
black, iron oxide red, calcite and lead white), copper-based green frit,
and gold leaf, with final detailing in black. 

The portrait panel sits in an opening cut into the front of the shroud.
The painting was executed in a beeswax medium, using a pigment palette
similar to that found in the shroud decoration. The paint was applied
with a brush along with a variety of tools to build up texture. 

**Date:**
AD 100-180

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_dating)

**Find spot:**
El-Hibeh

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Given by the Egypt Exploration Fund 

[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_63_1903_imagesheet)

