---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Anthropoid coffin of Userhet '
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_88_1903
order: 16
images: 
  -
    image: E_88_1903_5_mas.jpg
    caption: Anthropoid coffin of Userhet
  -
    image: E_88_1903_ZQ8H3538_2.jpg
    caption: Detail of the face
---

**Object name:** 
Anthropoid coffin of Userhet 

**Accession no.:** 
E.88.1903

**Other numbers and markings:**
tbd

**Dimensions:** 
H 182.4 cm
W 42.1 cm
D 33.2 cm

**Brief description:** 

An anthropoid coffin  found inside a decorated rectangular coffin. 

The coffin decoration shows Userhet prepared for burial, as if the
coffin itself is meant to perform
the function of the white linen wrappings around his body and the mask
over his face. Like earlier mummies, this coffin lay on its side, so
that the eyes were close to the eyes painted on the outside of the
rectangular coffin. Userhet’s face is painted black, a colour associated
with Osiris, and the line of inscription down his front identifies him
with that god, beginning ‘O Osiris, warrior Userhet’. The title
‘warrior’ is not common at this period and was not used for others
buried in this cemetery; it may signify Userhet’s status locally rather
than being a military title. The rest of the text, like that on the
coffin of Nakht, calls on Nut to spread herself over him. The decoration
on Userhet’s chest represents a broad collar of coloured beads, a
feature that occurs on many later coffins. 


**Date:**
c. 1855–1790 BC

Middle Kingdom

Late Twelfth Dynasty 

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_dating)

**Find spot:**
Beni Hasan, tomb 132

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Given by the Beni Hasan Excavation Committee.

[Further acquisition
information](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and
materials](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_88_1903_imagesheet)

