---
category: catalogue
layout: coffins
title: 'Cartonnage coffin fragment showing the goddess Isis'
permalink: /coffin-catalogue/E_GA_2887_1943
order: 30
images: 
  -
    image: /images/catalogue/preview_E_GA_2887_1943_1_201506_jas244_mas.jpg
    caption: Cartonnage coffin fragment showing the goddess Isis front view
  -
    image: /images/catalogue/preview_E_GA_2887_1943_2_201506_jas244_mas.jpg
    caption: Cartonnage coffin fragment showing the goddess Isis back view with markings
   
---

**Object name:** 
Cartonnage coffin fragment showing the goddess Isis

**Accession no.:** 
E.GA.2887.1943

**Other numbers and markings:**
tbd

**Dimensions:** 
H 37.3 cm
W 14.4 cm
D 0.5 cm

**Brief description:** 

The goddess Isis, identified by the hieroglyph on her head, is depicted here as a woman with wings extending from her arms. With these she protected the body of her husband, Osiris after he was murdered by Seth. Her sister Nephthys is also sometimes depicted in this way and they were often depicted on the head and foot of a coffin. 


The figure of a winged Isis. Her hair and skin are green. Her dress is red. On her head there is a sun disc with the Isis sign in the middle. In front of her there is a caption, slightly faded but still readable: Isis, the great, god’s mother. Above Isis are the remains of some feathers visible, certainly from another winged figure placed over the chest of the cartonnage. Under Isis there are the remains of a next register and hieroglyphs.



**Date:**
About 945–735 BC

[Further dating information](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_dating)

**Find spot:**
unknown

[Further find spot information](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_findspot)

**Acquisition:**
Given by R.G. Gayer-Anderson

[Further acquisition information](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_acquisition)

**Construction, decoration and materials:**

Basic info: JD will do

[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_materials)


**Other information**

[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_conservation)

[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_bibliography)

[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_2887_1943_imagesheet)


