---category: cataloguelayout: coffinstitle: 'Wooden panel showing the goddess Nephthys'permalink: /test_coffin-catalogue/E_GA_4331_1943order: 35image:/images/catalogue/E.GA.4331.1943/large_E_GA_4331_1943_1_201506_jas244_mas.jpgimages:   -    image: E.GA.4331.1943/large_E_GA_4331_1943_1_201506_jas244_mas.jpg    caption: Wooden panel showing the goddess Nephthys front view   -    image: E.GA.4331.1943/large_E_GA_4331_1943_2_201506_jas244_mas.jpg    caption: Wooden panel showing the goddess Nephthys back view with markings  ---**Object name:** Wooden panel showing the goddess Nephthys**Accession no.:** E.GA.4331.1943**Other numbers and markings:**<other numbers etc.>**Dimensions:** H 33 cmW 18 cmD 3 cm**Brief description:** Nephthys is shown here crouching on the gold hieroglyph, with thehieroglyphs that spell her name on her head. Depictions of Nephthys andIsis were included on coffins to provide protection to the body inside,in the same way that these goddesses protected Osiriss body. Fragment of a wooden coffin board, made of two pieces of wood. Nephthysis sitting on a nub (gold) sign.Here arms are raised. The figure is painted in black outlines; detailsare in red and green. The skinis left unpainted. The piece comes perhaps from the head end of a coffinbox.**Date:**About 664-200 BC[Further dating information](/catalogue/further/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_dating)**Find spot:**unknown[Further find spot information](/catalogue/further/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_findspot)**Acquisition:**given by R.G. Gayer-Anderson[Further acquisition information](/coffin-catalogue/E.GA.4331.1943_acquisition)**Construction, decoration and materials:**Basic info: JD will do[Further information about construction, decoration and materials](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_materials)**Other information**[Conservation treatments](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_conservation)[Bibliography](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_bibliography)[Other images](/catalogue_extras/E_GA_4331_1943_imagesheet)